He told you.
He said, of course, we can't give you any more money.
I just stood up.
I'm not going to say what I said, but I said, I'm not going to coach the women for nothing.
I walked out and slammed the door, went down to the office at the stadium, and I figured that when I got down there, the phone would ring, and Charlie Thomas, you're fired.
I mean, I just knew that was it, but I wasn't going to coach the women for free.
I mean, that guy was getting like $40,000, $50,000 a year to coach him, you know.
And another thing he said, he said, well, also we've got to take three of the women's scholarships and give them to tennis or golf.
So in other words, I've got to coach women with no money and take some of their scholarships away and then try to beat Texas.
See, that's all in my mind.
I've got to try to beat Texas, and Texas was dominating women's sports.
I mean, they were, you know.
But anyway, the phone rings later on, and John Davis said, Charlie, come back up to the office in the morning and said, I think I got something worked out.
I'll go back up there, and he said, I'm going to give you a $1,500 raise and give a $10,000 raise.
Y'all coach with me.
He said, would you be interested in that?
I said, yeah, I'll do that.
But anyway, they eliminate that coach, eliminate three scholarships.
But see, I didn't really know it, but they were still having money problems then, too.
And I didn't realize that because all I, you know, I think I've got to win and do as good as I can, you know.
What was the difference between coaching men and coaching women?
How did they compare it?
Well, I found that you had to work the women a little bit harder, and that surprised me.
But you had to work them a little bit harder to get the same results.
And I went and talked to several coaches and other places that coached men and women and had been doing it.
He said, a woman
He said, like if you're running, you're training your quarter-model to run six 220s and real fast, a little rest.
He said, you need to run the women about 10 to 12 220s slower.
He said, it just takes more running for them to get in shape, to do their best.
They have to work out a little bit harder, and that was about the only difference.
Was there any coaching practice that you had used over the years for women, for men, that you realized wouldn't work for women?
Well, that was,
the main thing, and they had several women that was kind of the club-footed type deal, and I was trying to teach them how to form, how to run correctly, and boy, right quick, they told me that they were, I had a bad hip, I had this or that, and I mean, they'd jump right back on you and tell you, you can't tell me to do that, you know, so I'd just kind of forget about it and just let them run.
If they want to run backwards, let them run backwards.
But most of the girls, I found that one thing, they're dedicated, and they work harder, and the women are really dedicated.
See, I had the first girl to win the NCAA championship in the high jump, and I think it's the first woman that won the first place was a track girl.
All right, back to your own guidelines.
You weren't a smoker, is that right?
Right, uh-huh.
Do you have any personal guidelines about drinking?
The whole time I drank, I drank a cocktail or something, but around the house I never had beer or anything.
When you were trying to get the track team straightened out, did you ever get loud?
Did you ever raise your voice?
Not very often, huh?
The first thing that I had a problem with when I came to Texas A&M, the military, the guy, everybody was in the Corps, see, and start to go to work out down there.
Wouldn't anybody show up for a workout or just a few start working out.
So I finally had a meeting and put a rule in there.
You know, and then some of the main runners, they were COs or whatever of the company, you know.
Coach, I can't.
I'm a CO.
I got to do this and I got to do this.
I said, all right, if you're going to do that, I don't want you on a track team.
And I set a roof where they had to be in practice every day.
And see, they were all within a dormitory.
but they were wearing the uniform.
So I got it fixed where I could, if I kicked them out, I could kick them out, but they'd have to move into the Corps.
And I did, I kicked several of them out and made them move into the Corps because they were just, they weren't very good athletes.
They were just all, that's all they wanted to do.
And they were just kind of coming out for track.
But I finally got them all working out.
Now did you tell, over the years, did you tell the members of the track team
what any rules that you wanted them to follow about dormitory, about drinking and this and that and the other,
Just not do anything bad.
I mean, don't tear up the dorm or anything like that.
We never did have any problem.
One time over at Cane Hall, they flooded that thing.
But that's all sports was in that, you know.
They flooded that thing.
I went up there that morning and water was that deep in Cane, in Hart Hall.
And they moved all the furniture, were wet, and they moved it out.
Yeah, you said Kane Hall started with, you meant Hart.
Hart Hall, yeah.
And anyway, for a whole week, I don't know who the athletic director was in, maybe Fulberg.
Yeah, they've been about right.
But anyway, they made those guys meet and run like three miles every morning for about a month and come back and mop everybody.
We had to quit having track practice for two or three days.
Everybody had to clean up the dorm, mop it.
They stopped up all the commodes and turned them on up on the top floor or something.
All that water run down and couldn't get out.
It was kind of funny, but it was a bad deal, you know.
All right.
Now, you got here in 1957?
Uh-huh.
And at that point, where was A&M in the conference?
They were the top of the conference.
My senior year at Texas in 1954, we won the Southwest Conference.
We beat A&M.
A&M had won it the three years that I was at Texas before that.
I knew how good A&M was.
They had all those good field event guys.
They had Walt Davis in the high jump.
How did A&M do your first years?
We were second, third, and about the same as Colonel Andy Adams.
Have you tallied up all of those in all the years that you were the head coach?
How did we do?
Well, I think we won.
We did better in the Nationals.
ranked than we did the Southwest Conference because you couldn't hardly win the Southwest Conference, but you could go beat everybody else in the nationals.
I think I only won four Southwest Conference championships in those years, but I was in the top four
of the NCAA, which no other sport has done.
I don't think football has ever ranked in the top four or basketball.
We got second one time, and we've got in the top six, I think, about six times or something like that.
And do you have any idea how many NCAA individual champions you have?
No, but I've had, I think a little over a hundred All-Americans.
Something like that.
That list you showed me there of record holders.
Let's see, I made a list here.
I might leave this with you.
I'd write down things for a long time in case
All right, here's my world record holder.
Everybody on that list is, not just the NCAA, but world record.
Of all of those, we mentioned Matson and Ted Nelson.
Who else, as you think back, who are some of your other favorites?
Okay, Arturo Barris, he held two world records.
I just got one down here because one of them has been broken.
Right now he holds a world record in 20,000 meters, and he did hold a world record in 10,000 meters.
That's been broken, but he still holds a world record.
He's one of my stars.
For instance, Arkansas, this is when Arkansas started taking over and winning everything.
When Artira came along, we had the other Southwest Conference meet in Arkansas.
We'd take Artira up there and he went to 5,000 and 10,000 on their track.
You talk about being shocked.
Arkansas, they dominate all those distance events.
But he's one of the great runners we've had.
Andre Kaysen, a little sprinter, he set the world record in a six-yard dash indoors.
It's not just a state record, but it's a world record.
I mean, the best there is, you know.
Right now, he's on the world record.
He still holds the world record.
on the relay team.
He ran with a bunch out of the Houston USA team in 1993, and Floyd Heard was just like him.
He's on the world record in the 880 relay right now.
But anyway, Floyd Heard was a guy from Milwaukee that I recruited.
He ran 1995 in a 220.
You know, he was a great guy.
But both of those guys I had to recruit hard to get out of.
He was from Milwaukee.
Andre Cason was from out of pretty close to, I forget what state he was from, but up there around Washington, D.C.
Oh, yeah.
Another deal is the vice president of the governor of Texas, he ran track for me.
Oh, Rick Perry.
Uh-huh.
Did he?
What was his event?
Well, he was a walk-on type guy.
What was his?
He was a quarter miler.
Okay.
Ran some.
And anyway, what I was going to say, though, all the
Well, the guy in Congress up there that's Aggie talked here.
Oh, Phil Graham?
Phil Graham.
All right.
I recruited a quarter mile from Maryland that was state champion, great guy, black guy.
And he invited the whole family to the White House.
and entertained them at the White House.
And that sold them.
And when I got him back down here, I signed him.
And he ran for us and did great.
And I can't even think of his name, but he was the first black to graduate in the School of Engineering at Texas A&M, another track guy.
I had a bunch of blacks be the first graduate in different deals.
But anyway, then I had Randy Barnes, Randy Mattson, Mike Stutes, and those three, they were three 70 foot shot footers, all of them Olympic champions and so forth.
And then I had Curtis Mills,
And he, you know, he was the world's best.
And then the next year, recruited his brother, who was Marvin Mills.
And with those two, put together with Rocky Woods and Donnie Rogers, they were two white guys.
For two years, we were undefeated in the relay with those four runners.
And Rocky Woods was,
You know, he won the 220.
He beat Marvin Mills.
I mean, he was fast.
But anyway, we were undefeated there.
We made some big time.
We went to indoor New York City.
They had those big indoor meets up there.
We made several of those trips.
Got a lot of experience, a lot of publicity out of them, you know.
Now, did you have a team that you enjoyed beating more than anybody else?
Texas.
Always.
What were the relations like between you and the Texas coaches?
We were real friendly.
We still are.
In fact, I went to Austin last week.
I was invited up there for the Texas relays.
They named the street Clyde Littlefield deal.
And Clyde Littlefield and Frank Anderson were big buddies, and they were battling each other every week.
And it's about the same way right now.
Ted Nelson and Bubba Thornton, Bubba coach at TCU.
And Bubba and I, we're just like it.
I mean, we battle each other, but we'll go out and drink coffee together and, you know, sit down and eat dinner together and stuff like that, you know.
We're all good friends, and we just try to beat each other.
During your years of coaching in the Southwest Conference, did most of the other schools follow the NCAA regulations well?
Yes, uh-huh.
Let's see.
Well, they were more near SMU.
They got in trouble, you know.
for most of those years, it was A&M, Texas, Rice at first.
Yes, uh-huh.
And then later Baylor.
Baylor, uh-huh.
Came along.
Jack Patterson.
Yeah.
Got Baylor going.
And then Arkansas not long before they left the conference.
Right, uh-huh.
Academically, what were some of the toughest courses that,
that track athletes had to take at A&M?
What were they?
It was, well, English.
English and, I think, chemistry.
English and chemistry.
Was there a favorite major for them?
Well, it ended up, seemed like physical education, but I think it's because they wanted to be coaches, you know, teachers, and it's because they were good, and if they were real good track, well, a lot of times they wanted to end up going back in coaching, but a lot of them take business, and I had another first guy, the first class that graduated in
dentistry was Steve O'Neill, and he was a track guy, but he also holds a professional kicking football.
He was a track recruit, and they get him out for football, and he ends up kicking for them, you know, and then he goes in the pros and kicks a 98-yard punt, and he's a dentist here in town right now.
But he graduated out of first class,
and he was on the track scholarship.
Who gave the track, members of the track team, who gave them academic advice?
Who did they try?
Well, we had an academic counselor, Buddy Denton.
Buddy?
He was the first one and the only one for a long time.
How well did Buddy do that?
Well, it kept him busy.
I mean, see, the deal was, and it kind of still is, when they hired the athletic counselor or whatever, what's his title?
Counselor?
Athletic counselor?
His main duty is to keep all football players eligible and then maybe basketball and maybe, you know, track.
So my deal was,
I'm the one that has to go see the teachers, you know.
I play Buddy Denton because he's so busy.
I mean, how can you keep 60 football players eligible, and then you got 10 or 12 track guys you want to check on?
So I end up going talking to the teachers.
In fact, the year that, oh, the
Black football player, won NCAA three times in a 60-yard dash.
From here, Brian.
Curtis Dickey.
Curtis Dickey flunked it out.
And the white quarterback.
See, he was a track guy.
He flunks out.
Football is over, so they don't care.
All right.
Neither one of them can run track because they didn't pass enough hours.
So I go and talk to both teachers and ask them would they, I didn't try to get them to change the grade.
You know, all they needed was a D.
I asked them, I said, would you give them a test over, let them study, and I explained, they'd miss a lot, athletics and stuff, and let them study and take the test in two weeks, and then if they can pass the test and rate it to a D, I said they'd be eligible, and they both agreed.
So I got Curtis Dickey, a great quarterback, he played pro football.
He was tough.
He was champion in a hurdle, high hurdle.
Not Bucky Richards.
No, he was some humble, humble.
But he was like a nine-five sprinter.
But anyway, I got those two guys eligible because Buddy Denton, or it wasn't Buddy, it was that new guy that got over there now, a blue.
It might have been Buddy.
He was who it was.
He just didn't have time to, you know, that wasn't illegal.
I mean, you know, everybody did stuff like that.
Were there some faculty members that were particularly helpful to you?
Not really.
Because we didn't have any choice of putting them in any
Now, I did have some that hit me.
I had two during the time.
One guy hit me, coached a long jump.
He was a long jumper from North Texas, and he was in the School of Business.
This was way back there.
For three or four years, he hit me, and I finally got a little money to pay him a little bit to be my sister.
He coached a long jump and several things like that.
but mainly it was just me and Ted.
All right, and in facilities, when did they describe over those 30 years how the facilities were changing?
Just gradually getting better.
We started buying hurdles real quick and buying new hurdles, and we got caught and then we'd buy pole vault pits and high jump pits.
Now during, was the track, the track facility remained inside Kyle Field during all of your years, didn't it?
Yes, uh-huh.
Well, I moved my last year to, I was in the new stadium.
In fact, they got me to be the starter.
I shot the first, I started the first race in the track meet in the new stadium.
Where did the funding come from for that stadium?
Well, the guy from,
What's the guy donating money for the baseball park?
Olson.
Olson gave $100,000.
He gave $100,000, and the deal was, he and Frank Anderson were friends.
He gave him $100,000, and to name it Frank Anderson.
Did you get to help with the planning of it?
Yeah, we designed the track for it.
How do you feel about the quality of it?
I think it's one of the best, or the best.
Texas just built a new track, a new stadium, and their track is about like ours.
Now, our stadium is sorry.
I mean, you know, if we had to have the NCAA track meet, we couldn't have it.
I mean, you know, it's just a little old cheap stadium.
We got about five different runaways or six for the pole vault.
I don't care which way the wind is blowing, we can have it pole vault with the wind.
Do you guys wish that the tracks could have been left with inside the stadiums?
Well, we did to start with, but once we got moved over here, we loved it.
The bad part of it, the stadium wasn't big enough to block off the wind, and we got more wind.
But we loved being over here out of the way of football.
I mean, we always had conflict with football.
You know, every day it was something.
It was a whole lot better.
Texas coaches,
They were the same way.
They hated to move out of that stadium.
Man, I mean, they thought that was terrible.
But they built this new track over there, and now they said, man, this is the greatest thing ever happened to Texas.
What caused you to feel good and proud about being the coach?
track coach at Texas A&M?
Well, number one, it was in the Southwest Conference, or number one, Texas A&M was noted for the academic for being big time,
academic and a great institution, you know.
I knew it would be easy to go offer a guy a scholarship.
I mean, they'd rather go to Texas A&M than go to Sam Houston or go anywhere else really, you know.
And that was a big, it was big.
And did that, that Aggie pride, was that an important thing?
Oh yes, that was great.
I realized that.
I hadn't been here but one week, and I realized that the Aggie spirit was better than the Texas spirit.
Over there, you think everything is great, and it is.
You know, they just, they're sort of like the Aggies.
I know one time when I was at school over there, they come running in the dormitory, hollering and screaming at night, said the Aggies, the Aggies are on the track, let's just go.
So everybody, all the athletes gathered up and they run over there, they're gonna fight.
They're going to kill any Aggie that was in the stadium.
Anyway, they painted Texas A&M on the grass or something, some little deals like that.
They used to have little conflicts like that, but it was just spirit type deals.
During your years, did both schools benefit by this friendly rivalry?
Yes, I think so.
Each one better.
I think so.
It was better to run, like if I was at Texas, it was better to run Texas A&M than it would be to go to Baylor or go to University of Houston.
It was just more competition was better.
What were, of all those years, the proudest moments for you?
Well, the main thing is either finding a great athlete or having a good athlete to come through and do well.
I've had some bad moments, like I've found some great guys that turned out that didn't do any good, and one of them was the hardest guy I ever recruited, and he was a great guy, a nice guy from over here.
I'm getting where I can't remember a thing.
Little town's about a two-hour drive from here, South Texas, but he was the number one sprinter.
And A&M sent him to, we had an Aggie that flew him up to Los Angeles to the high school national meet, and he'd get like second or third in the national meet in the 102-20.
He was world caliber.
Or he comes to A&M, and I recruit him in Broadhead.
That's the guy out of Louisiana that I talk about at the same time.
I had two of the best track men in the United States sign.
What was his name?
Anyway, he pulled a muscle his freshman year, and he'd just run off and on, and he'd work hard.
I mean, he would run 100, repeat 220 or anything, double what he was supposed to do.
He could never sprint.
I mean, he would run beautiful, but he wasn't running very fast.
He never, never come around.
He did run on a relay team once or twice in four years, but he graduated and he's a big Aggie.
But, I mean, that's one of my disappointments.
It's like finding an All-American tackle and you don't play a game in four years, you know.
Now, I'm just about finished.
What have we not covered that we should have?
I think we've just about covered everything.
To whom do you feel most grateful for the satisfaction of all those years?
If everybody from all those years could be brought in, who would you want to?
Well, I guess I'd say Ted Nelson.
And he's helped me out more than anybody and any one single person.
Of all the athletic directors, who was the most grateful?
They were all real good.
The very first one was great.
And Amber Ballard and Jackie Sherrill and Gene Stallings, they were all great.
They were all dedicated and almost all of them had the same type of rules and everything, you know.
You mentioned President Rudder and Williams.
Were there other presidents that were obvious?
Well, I never did.
I didn't get acquainted with them very much.
All right.
Then I've only got one or two questions left.
One of them is, if somebody walked up to you and handed you a million-dollar check with one requirement,
that you had to pass that on to Texas A&M, but you could decide what the money would be used for, what would you have that, have A&M do with that?
If you could make a million dollar gift to A&M, what would it be?
Well, for a million dollars, I'd have a new stadium built on the other side of what they got now.
you could build a real great stadium, I think.
Is there anybody that has a stadium that you'd use as a model?
Well, the new one that they built in Texas, it'll hold 20,000, 10,000 on each side.
But their situation's a little bit different than ours.
See, they hold the state meets over there, so they're going to have bigger crowds and more of them.
And now that they put on the Texas Relay, they need a little bit bigger stadium.
We need one a little bit bigger than ours.
It just needs to be a little bit better, I think.
But they're getting the scoreboard.
They're getting the things now.
They got a brand new scoreboard.
It's world class now.
At the end, you keep 10 scores on it or 12 scores on it.
That's modern.
That cost them a lot of money, but that's up to date.
So A&M is, well, we're still in the top 10.
I'd say we're still in the top 10, you know.
That's about the only thing that I could think of.
And where should A&M hope, where should A&M expect to try to
average in the NCAA finishes in track?
Well, being in the top 20 is great, and we're in the top 20, I think.
Man, the top ten would be good if you can make it to the top ten or whatever, you know.
It's an off-and-on situation.
Now, Arkansas has been dominating it now.
I don't really know how they have done that well, but they have dominated track indoors and outdoors and across country, you know.